The package provides a way of representing a graph as nodes and edges. The graph can be directed and have weighted edges. It currently supports generic graph search algorithms like AStar and BFS. AStar is used to find the shortest path from one node to one of some list of end nodes. BFS creates a map<node,node>, so each node points to which of its neighbor nodes it should lead to for a shortest path to a list of end nodes. In that way, it calculates the shortest path for all nodes.
The package will provide some wrapper classes so someone could easily make a graph out of some data structure (ie a square grid or a hexagonal grid) pretty easily, without having to use the graph classes directly. A returned shortest path, instead of being a sequence of graph nodes, can be a sequence of the data structure.
Tower defense teams should be able to use it pretty easily. For most cases, a tower defense game will have a square grid with static structures (towers) that enemies have to go around. So the graph will be undirected,  have edges to empty neighboring grid cells with cost 1. However, the package should be able to change these assumptions. For example, an mountain tile might take two turns to cross, so it’s cost is not 1. The obstacles could move, in which case pathfinding must be redone or modified.
For the scrolling teams, a graph algorithms package is a little harder to use. A few ideas: an autonomous agent in the game. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DlkMs4ZHHr8 . Coolest video ever. Of course, there'd be more work to make this happen (ie put the scrolling world into a graph, and then search it with moving obstacles). 
